Factory China includes 22 second and third-tier Chinese cities distinctly reliant on export-intensive manufacturing to power economic growth and global engagement. Factory China grew faster than every other metro grouping since 2000. But they now must upgrade their human capital to effect a transition to a more balanced, services-oriented industrial structure.
Knowledge Capitals are 19 mid-sized, highly productive innovation centers in the United States (e.g. Boston, Dallas, San Jose, Seattle, etc.) and Europe (e.g., Amsterdam and Zurich) with talented workforces and elite research universities. These regions are at the world’s innovation frontier, and thus challenged constantly to generate new knowledge and ideas to sustain growth.
Emerging Gateways are 28 large business and transportation entry points for major national and regional markets in Africa (e.g. Johannesburg), Asia (e.g. Mumbai), Latin America (e.g. São Paulo), and the Middle East (e.g. Istanbul). These metros have grown healthily to reach middle-income status, but they lag on many key competitiveness factors as compared to global peers.
Asian Anchors include five Pacific-oriented metro areas—Beijing, Hong Kong, Seoul-Incheon, Shanghai, and Singapore— and a sixth major emerging market metro, Moscow. Asian Anchors are not as wealthy as their Global Giant counterparts, but play a similar role as command centers in fast-growing Asia, drawing on their infrastructure connectivity and talented workforces to attract the most FDI of any metro grouping. 
Global Giants are the largest cities in the United States (New York and Los Angeles), Japan (Tokyo and Osaka-Kobe), France (Paris), and the United Kingdom (London). These extremely large, wealthy metro areas are hubs for financial markets or major corporations, and serve as key nodes in global capital and talent flows.
American Middleweights are 16 mid-sized U.S. metro areas, including places like Indianapolis, Miami, and St. Louis, that are relatively wealthy and house strong universities and other anchor institutions. But relatively low traded sector productivity and FDI levels suggest they must continue to strategically align their existing assets to improve traded sector competitiveness. 
International Middleweights include 26 mid-sized cities in Australia (Melbourne and Sydney), Canada (Montreal and Toronto), and Europe (several German metros) globally connected by people and investment flows, but where growth has lagged after the financial crisis. Like their American middleweight peers, they are striving for a post-recession niche in the global economy, to varying degrees of success. 
